When significant change happens in an organization,
it doesn't just affect everyone at once.
Often, it unfolds as a continual process
that can benefit from foresight and careful planning.
Following a few best practices
can help us navigate changes with greater ease.
So, what are some specific benefits
of applying best practices in change management?
First, it could prevent chaos.
A thoughtful introduction of change
is better than an unplanned initiation
that can seriously disrupt routines
and expectations in unproductive ways.
Second, it helps maintain relationships.
Launching change without proper preparation
and communication can leave people feeling annoyed, ignored,
or worse, insulted.
Third, it fosters unity.
Being mindful of best practices helps create buy-in
and participation from those involved.
To get the best results,
examine what principles you're following
as you roll out a change.
Now, let's look at some of the principles you can apply.
Here are five best practices in change management.
First, lay out the vision.
Communicate why the change is happening
and the ultimate goal you wish to achieve.
Support this vision with data and information
to bring people up to speed.
For example, if you share data
showing that adding a new product will help the bottom line,
people might understand the change more.
Second, build the structure for change.
Don't leave people feeling unsupported
as they undergo the transformation.
Let them know what to expect down the road.
Ask yourself, do they know the timeframe for this change?
What are some parameters that can guide people
in the right direction?
Third, prioritize resources.
Dedicate the right people and systems to the task.
To prevent things from falling through the cracks,
create a resource for people to ask questions
and express concerns,
and make sure they know where to find available resources.
Next, create a communication loop.
Repeated communication and frequent updates
can smooth out the process.
This is especially true if things move quickly.
Rather than practicing top-down communication,
create a loop so that information flows in both directions.
This will also keep you aware
of how employees are implementing changes.
Finally, support the stakeholders.
As early as possible,
inform those most affected by the change.
Acknowledge their input and value
by involving them in the process,
even if it's as simple as asking
what they need to feel supported during the transition.
Thoughtful consideration can go a long way
toward preventing the headaches and mistakes
that can happen when a change takes place.
Creating a solid structural foundation for the process
reassures all parties involved
and helps ensure the change is applied effectively.